Doug Raffle
Website: http://stat.wvu.edu/~draffle/
Email: raffled@gmail.com 
Phone: 724.518.7446


Education:
West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV
MS in Statistics
Expected Aug 2015

California University of Pennsylvania, California, PA
BS in Computer Science
Minor in Mathematics
Grad. May 2013

Summary:
I am a data scientist and statistician with a strong background in
both software development and statistical analysis.  My experience in
teaching and research has allowed me the opportunity to not only learn
and implement a variety of statistical and machine learning models,
but to hone my presentation skills and work closely with experts in a
variety of fields.  My goal is to find a challenging
position where I can solve novel problems and make data-driven
policy recommendations.

Skills:
Technologies/Platforms
Microsoft Office, SPSS, JMP, SQL, Hadoop/MapReduce, Linux/Unix,
Microsoft Windows, Mac OSX, Emacs, RStudio 

Programming Languages
Strong: R, HTML/XML, LaTeX, Markdown/R Markdown, MySQL
Familiar: C/C++, Java, JavaScript, LISP, Perl, Python, Oracle SQL

Experience:
Graduate Teaching Assistant
West Virginia University
Department of Statistics
Morgantown, WV
August 2013 – August 2015
- Work with lecturers and professors to develop
  teaching and evaluation strategies.
- Teach and grade for laboratory sections of undergraduate Statistics
  courses, where the students review concepts and get hands-on experience
  using Statistics to solve realistic
  problems. 
- Work in our Statistics Tutoring
  Center to help students master 
  coursework from any of our department's classes, from 100- to
  400-level, in a one-on-one environment.

Graduate Research Assistant
West Virginia University
West Virginia Dialect Project
Morgantown, WV
May 2014 – Sept. 2014
- Consulted with linguists and to evaluate and create analysis workflows.
- Cleaned, shaped, and performed Exploratory Data Analyis on large data files generated by speech-processing software (Praat).
- Built and evaluated Linear and Generalized Linear Mixed Effects
models used in the investigation of sociolinguistic trends.

Undergraduate Research Assistant
California University of Pennsylvania
The Lexomics Project
California, PA
Sept. 2010 – May 2013
- Used Hierarchical Clustering algorithms to analyze Medieval Latin and Old English manuscripts for stylistic variation.
- Presented at several conferences and co-authored a paper explaining our methodology and results.

Research Intern
The Wheaton Lexomics Group
Wheaton College
Norton, MA
Summer 2012
- Worked directly with professors of Statistics and Computer Science
to develop, test, and document software for performing and visualizing
cluster analysis in text mining.
- Evaluated and implemented various machine learning and statistical methods to further analyze the features that are most indicative of clustering behavior and perform cluster validation.
